Redis can be told that a key should only exist for a certain length of time.
This is accomplished with the [EXPIRE](#help) and [TTL](#help) commands,
and by the similar [PEXPIRE](#help) and [PTTL](#help) commands that
operate using time in milliseconds instead of seconds.

<pre><code>
    <a href="#run">SET resource:lock "Redis Demo"</a>
    <a href="#run">EXPIRE resource:lock 120</a>
</code></pre>

This causes the key *resource:lock* to be deleted in 120 seconds. You can test
how long a key will exist with the [TTL](#help) command. It returns the number of
seconds until it will be deleted.

<pre><code>
    <a href="#run">TTL resource:lock</a> => 113
    <a href="#comment" class="comment">// after 113s</a>
    <a href="#run">TTL resource:lock</a> => -2
</code></pre>

The *-2* for the [TTL](#help) of the key means that the key does not exist (anymore).
A *-1* for the [TTL](#help) of the key means that it will never expire. Note
that if you [SET](#help) a key, its [TTL](#help) will be reset.

<pre><code>
    <a href="#run">SET resource:lock "Redis Demo 1"</a>
    <a href="#run">EXPIRE resource:lock 120</a>
    <a href="#run">TTL resource:lock</a> => 119
    <a href="#run">SET resource:lock "Redis Demo 2"</a>
    <a href="#run">TTL resource:lock</a> => -1
</code></pre>

The [SET](#help) command is actually able to accept further arguments in order to
directly set a time to live (TTL) to a key, so you can alter the value of a key
and set its TTL at the same time in a single atomic operation:

<pre><code>
    <a href="#run">SET resource:lock "Redis Demo 3" EX 5</a>
    <a href="#run">TTL resource:lock</a> => 5
</code></pre>

It is also possible to cancel the time to live of a key removing the expire and
making the key permanent again.

<pre><code>
    <a href="#run">SET resource:lock "Redis Demo 3" EX 5</a>
    <a href="#run">PERSIST resource:lock</a>
    <a href="#run">TTL resource:lock</a> => -1
</code></pre>
